missing information about API authorisation usages (#4284)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-24.10/api/rest-api-v1.md

## Permissions

> To perform [API calls](#api-calls)

Author: ```suggestion
To perform [API calls](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#api-calls)
```

> To perform [API calls](#configuration)

Reviewer: le lien vers "configuration" doit être positionné sur la commande qui donne accès à la configuration

> To perform [API calls](#configuration)

Reviewer: commencer par expliquer que l'API est spilttée en 2
puis donner les conditions d'accès pour chacune

> To perform [API calls](rest-api-v1.md#configuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To perform [API calls](#configuration):
```

> To perform [API calls](rest-api-v1.md#configuration)

Author: ```suggestion
To perform [API calls](#configuration)
```

> To perform [API calls](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#api-calls)

Author: ```suggestion
To perform [API calls](#api-calls)
```

> Note that you need to be authenticated before you perform each [API calls](#api-calls):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that you need to be authenticated before you perform each [API call](#api-calls):
```

> - Administrators are able to call both the **Configuration API** and the **Realtime API**.

Reviewer: il doit y avoir un lien pour real-time aussi

> Users can be authorized to perform API calls by configuring the **Admin**, **Reach API Configuration** and **Reach API Realtime** fields located in the [**Centreon Authentication**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#centreon-authentication) tab.

Author: ```suggestion
Users can be authorized to perform API calls by configuring the corresponding fields located in the [**Centreon Authentication**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#centreon-authentication) tab.
```

> - The [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) can be called by non-administrator as long as the corresponding field is checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) can be called by non-administrator users as long as the corresponding field is checked.
```

Reviewer: à ce stade, le lecteur se dit "on parle de quel champ, et où"? Il ne doit pas avoir à aller chercher l'info plus loin.

> - The [**Realtime API**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#realtime-information) can be called by non-administrator as long as the corresponding field is checked.

Author: ```suggestion
- The [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) can be called by non-administrator as long as the corresponding field is checked.
```

> - The [**Configuration API**](#configuration) can only be called by administrators. Note that this field only applies to the v2 API.

Reviewer 2: for APIv2, only administrator can access. For v2, all user having access to configuration with this option enabled can access.

> - Administrators are able to call both the **Configuration API** and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of if the individual field of the api is checked

Author: ```suggestion
- The [**Realtime API**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#realtime-information) can be called by non-administrator as long as the corresponding field is checked.
- Administrators are able to call both the **Configuration API** and the [**Realtime API**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#realtime-information) regardless of if the individual field of the api is checked
```

> - Administrators are able to call both the [**Configuration API**](#configuration) and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of if the individual field of the api is checked

Author: ```suggestion
- Administrators are able to call both the [**Configuration API**](#configuration) and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of the corresponding field of the api being checked.
```

> - Administrators are able to call both the [**Configuration API**](#configuration) and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of the corresponding field of the api being checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Administrators are able to call both the [**Configuration API**](#configuration) and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of the corresponding field of the API being checked.
```

> In all three instances, the corresponding fields can be found in the [**Centreon Authentication**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#centreon-authentication) tab when configuring a user.

Reviewer: adresse de la page

> In all three instances, the corresponding fields can be found in the [**Centreon Authentication**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#centreon-authentication) tab when configuring an user.

Author: ```suggestion
In all three instances, the corresponding fields can be found in the [**Centreon Authentication**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#centreon-authentication) tab when configuring a user.
```

> - Administrators are able to call both the **Configuration API** and the [**Realtime API**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#realtime-information) regardless of if the individual field of the api is checked

Author: ```suggestion
- Administrators are able to call both the **Configuration API** and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of if the individual field of the api is checked
```

> - Administrators are able to call both the [**Configuration API**](#configuration) and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of the corresponding field of the API being checked.

Author: ```suggestion
- Administrators are able to call both the [**Configuration API**](#configuration) and the [**Realtime API**](#realtime-information) regardless of the corresponding field of the API being checked. They are also the only ones allowed to use [**CLAPI**](clapi.md) while others can only use Rest API.
```

> In all three instances, the corresponding fields can be found in the [**Centreon Authentication**](../monitoring/basic-objects/contacts-create.md#centreon-authentication) tab when configuring a user.

Reviewer: faut mettre ça plus tôt

## Error codes

|Code|Message                                                                                 |

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
